TAEB is a modular NetHack bot + framework.

All of its NetHack-playing logic is in lib/TAEB/AI/. The framework is the rest
of lib/. For example, lib/TAEB/Spoilers/ includes data about NetHack's
monsters, items, etc.

The idea of TAEB is to abstract away the machinations of playing NetHack so
that the AI can do things declaratively. For a good example, look at:
    lib/TAEB/AI/Behavior/DipForExcalibur.pm

AI is currently broken into two parts, Behaviors and Personalities. Behaviors,
such as "FixHunger", are slightly higher level than individual actions, such as
"eat this particular item". Personalities make use of Behaviors and ultimately
decide which one is run next. The "ScoreWhore" personality lingers on each
level to maximize its score. The "Descender" personality takes the opposite
approach, and descends any stairs it sees.

The framework is ultimately in control of everything. Each turn it just asks
the AI for an action to run. Any prompts or menus are handled through the use
of callbacks. This divide made it easy to add a web interface in a day's work.

-- INSTALLING

If you're on Ubuntu, you'll first need to install the "build-essential" and
"libncurses5-dev" packages.


Warning: TAEB makes heavy use of CPAN.

$ perl Makefile.PL

Answer the defaults to any dependencies it asks about. You may have to set up
CPAN. The defaults are usually fine. Be sure to set a mirror though.


NOTE:
    Data::Dump::Streamer 2.08-40 has a test failure, so CPAN will refuse to
    install it. Because a lot of our dependencies depend on DDS, CPAN will try
    to install it a number of times. To fix this, force install DDS with:
        sudo cpan -fi Data::Dump::Streamer


$ sudo make installdeps

This will install the modules from CPAN. TAEB's dependencies themselves usually
have a few dependencies. All in all you're probably looking at about 50 modules.

-- CONFIGURING

Now it's time to set up TAEB for running on nethack.alt.org. First, create a
new account. Use etc/TAEB.nethackrc for its nethack config.

Then, in vim (and only vim, I'll know if you used emacs), edit the
(nonexistent) etc/site_config.yml config file. Here's where you set your
account's name and password. The format is:

---
interface: Telnet
interface_options:
    Telnet:
        account: (name)
        password: (password)

Be sure to include the three dashes.

Then you should be ready to run him! Type perl bin/taeb and cross your fingers.

If you want to run TAEB on your machine, you need to have nethack installed.
No patches are required.

If you're interested in developing TAEB, see the NEWTASKS file.

